Mocker - Microservices Mocking Framework
=======================================

### About Mocker

Mocker is a simple framework that allows you to mock the dependencies of your 
microservices. It is based on the "Consumer-Driven Contracts" pattern
and uses contracts for validating the expectations on both consumer and producer sides.

### Development Stack

Mocker is developed on PHP7 (is not backwards compatible with PHP5) and uses Redis as its storage engine.

### Use Case

Let's assume that we're building an application that has a `Consumer` and a `Producer`
microservice and that we need to mock the `Producer` microservice for both development
and testing purposes. By using Mocker, we can create a `Contract` between the `Consumer`
and the `Producer` and make sure that: 
- `Consumer` is able to handle all the different responses generated by the `Producer`
- `Producer` always produces the responses expected by the `Consumer`

### Installation

- Clone the repository
- Copy `.env.sample` to `.env`
- Install dependencies: `composer install`
- Build the containers: `docker-compose up -d --build` 

### Example

In Mocker, all contracts are created under specific microservices so we need a microservice first. 
In order to crate a new microservice, open your browser and navigate to:

`http://localhost:8080/dashboard/microservices`

After creating the microservice, navigate to the contracts page and create a new contract. For each contract you
can specify Method, URL, Headers, Request Body, Response Body and Response Code. 
Let's assume that we created the following contract.

##### Request

```
Method: GET, URL: producer/1
```

##### Response

```
Code: 200, Body: [{"id":1, "name":"name"}]
```

Once the contract is created Mocker will generate a unique URL for it. 

```
Example: mocker/2e23e6cf6f5fde596b25fa0f323d19d2
```

Let's see how we can use it in order
to test our `Consumer` and `Producer` microservices.

#### Important Note

In all the examples we assume that you use `.env.testing` file, where you define your testing configuration.
In this file, the basic Url to the `Producer` microservice should be set to `http://localhost:8080`.

#### Testing the Consumer

Let's assume that we are testing the `Consumer` microservice, and we need to make a GET request to the `Producer` 
microservice on endpoint `producer/1`. Even if the endpoint does not exist yet, we can use mocker like:
```
$httpClient->get('mocker/2e23e6cf6f5fde596b25fa0f323d19d2');
```
This will give as back the response specified in the contract with the respective code. As soon as we have the
response back, it is really easy to test if the `Consumer` behaves the way we want it to do. Keep in mind that
the method you will use in the `$httpClient` must much the method specified in the contract.

#### Testing the Producer

While we are testing the `Producer`, we need to get first the information stored in the contract.
As soon as we have it, we can then execute the request as specified in the contract against the `Producer` 
and check that the response is exactly the same as the one specified in the contract.

```
$contract = $httpClient->get('api/contracts/2e23e6cf6f5fde596b25fa0f323d19d2');
$response = $httpClient->get($contract['url']);
assertEquals($contract['response'], response);
```